---
layout: post
title: Sample blog post
subtitle: Each post also has a subtitle
tags: [pho]
comments: true
---

## Dualism & Physicism

The relationship of body and soul(mind).

* The body and the mind are different representations (or cognitions) of the same thing.
* Dualism (interactive) : The body and mind are two seperate things with very tight connection. And death might be the seveing of the connection.


In the assumption of the **Dualism**:

* Are bodyand soul distinct. (i.e. are there soul?)
* If there are soul, can soul survives the death of the body?
* If survive, how  long? Does it continue to exist forever?

Soul are reserved for immaterial stuff, it may not have a physics location.

**Materialist** view : people is just a material object, just a "body" (but not any old body) that can do some amazing things. For example, "smile" ( "mind" in our case here), the materialists don't deny smile. Talking about smile, is actually talking about the body ability to smile. There is mind, and talking about "The Mind", is actually talking about the body ability to do various things. Death is just the breaking down of the body, so it will not function any more.

"Mind" is talking about the abilities of the body.

### 1. Is there soul?

Something we say exist, is that we can see, touch or feel it. How can we tell the existance of "soul" when we can't feel it.

For an example "atoms", we infer the exitence of atoms, because it can explain things (physics laws).
We infer the existence of thins we cannot see, to explain sth we can't otherwise explain.
