
## Power of language

2019/11/18

While walking today morning I think of language and the story I saw in a novel. It talks about a characeter who work in a "language control" department, whoes responsiblity is to build the official directionary. He talks about how he love his work, how he is good at it. He likes to delete all the synonym and antonym, as they can be simplifed "substituted" by changing the forme of a word (as adding in- un-), for an example, the word "glad", "enjoyful", etc can all be expressed by "happy", and the word "sad", "sorrowful", "grieved", etc can all be expressed by the word "unhappy". He enjoyed to make things simple. It seems right in the very first sight, but, as I think more, I realized that it is grave. Because language can control people, even though someone may deny it, but all of us have already be controlled by our langage(s). 

I remeber I had read a article talk about some difference between chinese and english. I remember well when he talks about the word "country" and "nation", and the only word in chinese "GuoJia". The point is, in English, we have serval different expressions of the place united us together, "country" talks more about the people, the land, and the connection between them. However the word "nation" seems more servious, it mentions more the substance running the country, may be the law, the government, or some other authority. Some one loves his country, not necessaily loves his nation (or state). However, in Chinese, there are only one word to express all these staffs : "GuoJia". It just seems wrong, but all the people seems ignored it, even me. I remember when I was a kid, I was so confused why english have two different words with exactly the same meaning(or translation). But now, It is clear to me. Now I understand more about me, I love my country but not necessaily the nation or state.

We all sort of controlled by our language. May be that is the most important reason why I love to learn more language. It is to expend the way of think. And try to not be constranted by words.
